examples/callcenter/README.md, before:

# Call Center Example Application


Use Case
---------------------------
Process begin and end call events from a call center. Pair/join events in VoltDB to create a definitive record of completed calls.

Use VoltDB's strong consistency and stored procedure logic to compute a running standard deviation on call length by agent. This is not a trivial thing to compute without strong consistency. The provided HTML dashboard shows a top-N list of agents by standard deviation. It can be found in the "web" folder.

Note that in order for the simulation to be interesting, this app uses unrealistic call data. The average call time is 5s by default to make the stats interesting in a two-minute example run.

This app doesn't really show off the extraordinary throughput of VoltDB, though it will get a lot faster if you set the average call time lower and/or the number of agents higher.


VoltDB Features and Patterns
---------------------------

- **Streaming Joins**: Joining begin and end events for the same call using a table to hold unpaired state. Note the example supports out-of-order pairing.
- **Idempotent Processing**: Some of the input messages are duplicated, simulating real-life *at-least-once* delivery guarantees. This app uses VoltDB strong consistency to ignore redundant processing.
- **Complex Calculations**: Computing standard deviation is reasonably complex math, and is enabled using strong consistency in VoltDB.
- **Procedure Class Hierarchies**: The begin and end procedures inherit from a common base class that computes standard deviation for completed calls.
- **Auto-Table Truncation**: The completed call record and the standard deviation tables are both set up to automatically remove tuples if they grow too large.

Quickstart
---------------------------
VoltDB Examples come with a run.sh script that sets up some environment and saves some of the typing needed to work with Java clients. It should be fairly readable to show what is precisely being run to accomplish a given task.

1. Make sure "bin" inside the VoltDB kit is in your path.
2. Type "voltdb create --new" to start an empty, single-node VoltDB server.
3. Open a new shell in the same directory and type "sqlcmd < ddl.sql" to load the schema and the jarfile of procedures into VoltDB.
4. Type "./run.sh client" to run the client code.
5. Open up the index.html the "web" directory to view the status dashboard.

If you're running the example on a different machine than your web browser is running on, you can run `./run.sh webserver` in a new shell and then connect to your dashboard from a browser at [http://servername:8081](http://servername:8081).

You can stop the server, running client, or webserver at any time with `ctrl-c` or `SIGINT`.

Note that the downloaded VoltDB kits include pre-compiled stored procedures and client code as jarfiles. To run the example from a source build, it may be necessary to compile the Java source code by typing "run.sh jars" before step 3 above. Note that this step requires a full Java JDK.


Other run.sh Actions
---------------------------
- *run.sh* : start the server
- *run.sh server* : start the server
- *run.sh init* : load the schema and stored procedures
- *run.sh jars* : compile all Java clients and stored procedures into two Java jarfiles
- *run.sh client* : start the client
- *run.sh clean* : remove compilation and runtime artifacts
- *run.sh cleanall* : remove compilation and runtime artifacts *and* the two included jarfiles
- *run.sh webserver* : serve the web directory over http on port 8081

If you change the client or procedure Java code, you must recompile the jars by deleting them in the shell or using `./run.sh jars`.

Client Behavior Options
---------------------------
You can control various characteristics of the demo by modifying the parameters passed into the InvestmentBenchmark java application in the "client" function of the run.sh script.

**Speed & Duration:**

    --displayinterval=5           (seconds between status reports)
    --warmup=5                    (how long to warm up before measuring
                                   benchmark performance.)
    --duration=120                (benchmark duration in seconds)
    --ratelimit=20000             (run up to this rate of requests/second)

**Cluster Info:**

    --servers=$SERVERS            (host(s) client connect to, e.g.
                                   =localhost
                                   =localhost:21212
                                   =volt9a,volt9b,volt9c
                                   =foo.example.com:21212,bar.example.com:21212)

**Parameters Affecting Simulation:**

    --agents=3000                 (number of call center agents)
    --numbers=1500000             (number of phone numbers in total)
    --meancalldurationseconds=5   (mean call duration in seconds)
    --maxcalldurationseconds=60   (max call duration)

Commit message:

ENG-10319 Many new examples, HOWTO's, deployment files, README's and README updates.

examples/callcenter/README.md, after:

# Call Center Example Application


Use Case
---------------------------
Process begin and end call events from a call center. Pair/join events in VoltDB to create a definitive record of completed calls.

Use VoltDB's strong consistency and stored procedure logic to compute a running standard deviation on call length by agent. This is not a trivial thing to compute without strong consistency. The provided HTML dashboard shows a top-N list of agents by standard deviation. It can be found in the "web" folder.

Note that in order for the simulation to be interesting, this app uses unrealistic call data. The average call time is 5s by default to make the stats interesting in a two-minute example run.

This app doesn't really show off the extraordinary throughput of VoltDB, though it will get a lot faster if you set the average call time lower and/or the number of agents higher.


VoltDB Features and Patterns
---------------------------

- **Streaming Joins**: Joining begin and end events for the same call using a table to hold unpaired state. Note the example supports out-of-order pairing.
- **Idempotent Processing**: Some of the input messages are duplicated, simulating real-life *at-least-once* delivery guarantees. This app uses VoltDB strong consistency to ignore redundant processing.
- **Complex Calculations**: Computing standard deviation is reasonably complex math, and is enabled using strong consistency in VoltDB.
- **Procedure Class Hierarchies**: The begin and end procedures inherit from a common base class that computes standard deviation for completed calls.
- **Auto-Table Truncation**: The completed call record and the standard deviation tables are both set up to automatically remove tuples if they grow too large.

Quickstart
---------------------------
VoltDB examples come with a run.sh script that sets up some environment and saves some of the typing needed to work with Java clients. It is very readable and when executed, shows what is precisely being run to accomplish a given task.

1. Make sure "bin" inside the VoltDB kit is in your path.
2. Type "voltdb create -f" to start an empty, single-node VoltDB server.
3. Open a new shell in the same directory and type "sqlcmd < ddl.sql" to load the schema and the jarfile of procedures into VoltDB.
4. Type "./run.sh client" to run the client code.
5. Open up the index.html the "web" directory to view the status dashboard.

If you're running the example on a different machine than your web browser is running on, you can run `./run.sh webserver` in a new shell and then connect to your dashboard from a browser at [http://servername:8081](http://servername:8081).

You can stop the server, running client, or webserver at any time with `ctrl-c` or `SIGINT`.

Note that the downloaded VoltDB kits include pre-compiled stored procedures and client code as jarfiles. To run the example from a source build, it may be necessary to compile the Java source code by typing "run.sh jars" before step 3 above. Note that this step requires a full Java JDK.


Other run.sh Actions
---------------------------
- *run.sh* : start the server
- *run.sh server* : start the server
- *run.sh init* : load the schema and stored procedures
- *run.sh jars* : compile all Java clients and stored procedures into two Java jarfiles
- *run.sh client* : start the client
- *run.sh clean* : remove compilation and runtime artifacts
- *run.sh cleanall* : remove compilation and runtime artifacts *and* the two included jarfiles
- *run.sh webserver* : serve the web directory over http on port 8081

If you change the client or procedure Java code, you must recompile the jars by deleting them in the shell or using `./run.sh jars`.

Client Behavior Options
---------------------------
You can control various characteristics of the demo by modifying the parameters passed into the java application in the "client" function of the run.sh script.

**Speed & Duration:**

    --displayinterval=5           (seconds between status reports)
    --warmup=5                    (how long to warm up before measuring
                                   benchmark performance.)
    --duration=120                (benchmark duration in seconds)
    --ratelimit=20000             (run up to this rate of requests/second)

**Cluster Info:**

    --servers=$SERVERS            (host(s) client connect to, e.g.
                                   =localhost
                                   =localhost:21212
                                   =volt9a,volt9b,volt9c
                                   =foo.example.com:21212,bar.example.com:21212)

**Parameters Affecting Simulation:**

    --agents=3000                 (number of call center agents)
    --numbers=1500000             (number of phone numbers in total)
    --meancalldurationseconds=5   (mean call duration in seconds)
    --maxcalldurationseconds=60   (max call duration)

Customizing this Example
---------------------------
See the "deployment-examples" directory within the "examples" directory for ways to alter the default single-node, no authorization deployment style of the examples. There are readme files and example deployment XML files for different clustering, authorization, export, logging and persistence settings.
